Okay. So, for more detail,
let's go over an example,
which will help to make this a little more concrete.
So let's say we've trained a complex model on three features.
If it's given no inputs to make a prediction,
then its prediction would be the equal weighted average of all this training samples.
We saw this earlier when we say the model has no information.
What's its best guess?
Its best guess is just taking the average of all the training labels.
Let's say that equal weighted average of the training labels is 100.
In other words, if a model is given no features and asked to make a prediction,
it would predict 100.
So this is just an example that is 100.
So 100 is the expected value based on the training labels.
Now, let's say, we give the complex model
a single sample observation with
all three features and a complex model gives a prediction of 200.
So now given all three features,
it now makes a more informed decision of 200.
So, as an example, the additive feature attribution model
may assign feature importance is to the three features like this.
So we have features 0, 1 and 2.
Feature 0 has an importance value of positive 50,
feature 1 has positive 90 and feature 2 has negative 40.
So these are the attributions of how each feature moved the needle from 100 to 200.
So, this is saying that feature 0 pushed the complex model's prediction up by 50.
So starting at the 100,
starting position features are pushed the model's prediction up by 50.
Feature one pushed the complex model's prediction up by
90 and feature 2 pushed the model's prediction down by 40.
The end result was to go from the expected value of 100 to the prediction of 200.
So, just to give you a visual of this,
if we go back to the paper,
and in the paper, we go to the top of page three.
You can see this visual.
This is a similar example.
Let's imagine we have a couple of features represented by these arrows.
So, feature 0 is starting from the expected value which in this case is 0.
Feature 0 is pushing the prediction in a positive direction,
feature 1 and feature 2 and feature 3, all these red arrows.
They have feature importances that are pushing
the final prediction in the positive direction.
Whereas feature 4 is pushing the prediction in the negative direction,
and so f of x the final prediction,
given all of these five features from 0-4.
Okay. So the shapley value that we just calculated are these values that pushed
the model's prediction from the average of
the training labels to the mode's final prediction.
When we add up the shapley values for all features,
they should add up to the model's prediction.
In other words, when we add up the shapley values here,
they should add up to the model's prediction, 200.
So now let's continue to three examples that we
can talk through it to make this a little bit more concrete.